From this lecture you will learn
what a unit testing framework is
and why JUnit is so popular.
any unit testing framework gives us three
things that is
1.An easy to use API
to write unit.
2. different ways to compare or assert the
actual results
that are returned from the methods and the
results we are expecting
thirdly
a way to run
and report out the results, both the success
as well as the failures in a developer friendly
fashion.
Junit provides these three.
Starting with JUnit3
We had to extend a test case class
All our test classes should extend test case class
and all the methods should follow a naming convention
certain naming convention for it to work
But JUnit4 removes all that
and makes our job a lot easier by providing
easy to use annotations.
First annotation is the test annotation
which we used to mark each and every test method with.
The @Before annotation is used to mark our setup
methods where-in will be creating all the objects
that we need for our test and all the data that we want to
setup for a particular test will
put that in a method and mark that method with the
@Before annotation.
Any method that is marked with @Beforen annotation
Will be run before each test method
that we write in a test class.
Similarly any method that we mark with
@After annotation will be run
after every test method.
So will be  doing all the setup in the methods marked @Before
and the clean-up in the methods marked with
@After so that every test method  will have
clean data or objects.
As the name itself says the @Before class annotation
so we mark a method with this annotation
that method will be run only once for the entire
test class right at the beginning.
Last
I don't recommend using this annotation but if you mark
your test with this annotation those test will be
ignored when you run them from your ides
or when you run them from your build tools like Maven
or ANT those tests will be ignored.
JUnit also provides easy to use
static methods in the
assert class which we can use to
assert the expected results versus the actual
results that come back from the methods.For example,
the assertNotNull
will take an object and if that object is null
that assertion will fail right there
and our test will also fail.
Similarly, the assertEquals checks for the
values of two objects.
The assertSame checks for the references of
two objects. There are several other assertion
methods on in the assertAPI
which you can play around with to compare the
actual result versus the expected results.
Finally, a way to run our test
and report the results.
JUnit provides a BlockJUnit4ClassRunner
which is very easy
to use.We run this from command line pass our test classes
as a command line argument to this class
and this class will scan through our test classes
for the annotations at the test annotation @Before annotation
run all the setup and clean-up methods
and run all our test methods and it will report out the
results of all the test that have passed
and failed, but we rarely touch these class
we run our test either from ides
like eclipse and net beans or we run our test
using build tools like ANT and Maven.
which internally use this class.
This is the default JUnit test runner
you can always extend this for example
SpringJUnit4ClassRunner
extends this class and it implements
JUnitRunner framework
for it writing integration test while working with spring
based applications and the @RunWith annotation
can be used to configure a runner
when we run our test. By default it is
this BlockJUnit4ClassRunner
To summarize,
JUnit4 provides a easy to be used API
to do three things
which any JUnit testing framework will do an easy
to use API to write test
then to assert, the actual result and expected
results and finally it runs our test
and reports out the results in a
very developer friendly passion.